Reference consolidation numeric types (#13054)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/integral-numeric-types.md

---
title: "Integral numeric types - C# reference"
description: "Learn the range, storage size, and uses for each of the integral numeric types."
ms.date: 06/25/2019
f1_keywords:
  - "byte"
  - "byte_CSharpKeyword"
  - "sbyte_CSharpKeyword"
  - "sbyte"
  - "short"
  - "short_CSharpKeyword"
  - "ushort"
  - "ushort_CSharpKeyword"
  - "int_CSharpKeyword"
  - "int"
  - "uint"
  - "uint_CSharpKeyword"
  - "long_CSharpKeyword"
  - "long"
  - "ulong_CSharpKeyword"
  - "ulong"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "integral types, C#"
  - "Visual C#, integral types"
  - "types [C#], integral types"
  - "ranges of integral types [C#]"
  - "byte keyword [C#]"
  - "sbyte keyword [C#]"
  - "short keyword [C#]"
  - "ushort keyword [C#]"
  - "int keyword [C#]"
  - "uint keyword [C#]"
  - "long keyword [C#]"
  - "ulong keyword [C#]"
---

> # Integral numeric types  (C# reference)

Reviewer: I would use "numeric" to exclude `char` and to make this article more searchable

> # Integral numeric types  (C# reference)

Author: I agree that there's a bit of redundancy. For now, I'll keep it in.

After adding the article with floating point, and working with the char type, I'll revisit.

## Sizes and ranges

The following table shows the sizes and ranges of the integral types:

|Type|Range|Size|  
|----------|-----------|----------|  
|`sbyte`|-128 to 127|Signed 8-bit integer|  
|`byte`|0 to 255|Unsigned 8-bit integer|  
|`short`|-32,768 to 32,767|Signed 16-bit integer|  
|`ushort`|0 to 65,535|Unsigned 16-bit integer|  
|`int`|-2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647|Signed 32-bit integer|  
|`uint`|0 to 4,294,967,295|Unsigned 32-bit integer|  
|`long`|-9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807|Signed 64-bit integer|  
|`ulong`|0 to 18,446,744,073,709,551,615|Unsigned 64-bit integer|  

The default value for all integral types is `0`. Each of the integral types has constants named `MinValue` and `MaxValue` for the minimum and maximum value for that type.

Use the <xref:System.Numerics.BigInteger?displayProperty=nameWithType> structure to represent an arbitrarily large signed integer.

## Integral literals

Integral literals can be specified as *decimal literals*, *hexadecimal literals*, or *binary literals*. An example of each is shown below:

```csharp
var decimalLiteral = 42;
var hexLiteral = 0x2A;
var binaryLiteral = 0b_0010_1010;
```

> Decimal literals don't require any prefix. The `x` or `X` prefix signifies a *hexadecimal literal*. The `b` or `B` prefix signifies a *binary literal*. The declaration of `binaryLiteral` demonstrates the use of `_` as a digit separator. Binary literals and the digit separator `_` are supported starting with C# 7.0.

Reviewer 2: This implies that the digit separator is only supported with binary literals; it's supported with all numeric literals. That should be made clear.

## Type of an integral literal

> If an integral literal has no suffix, its type is the first of the following types in which its value can be represented:

Reviewer 2: suffixes haven't been discussed. Perhaps a separate section listing them right before this section?

1. `long`
1. `ulong`

You can convert an integral literal to a type with a smaller range than the default using either an assignment or a cast:

```csharp
byte byteVariable = 42; // type is byte
var signedByte = (sbyte)42; // type is sbyte.
```

You can convert an integral literal to a type with a larger range than the default using either assignment, a cast, or a suffix on the literal:

```csharp
var unsignedLong = 42UL;
var longVariable = 42L;
ulong anotherUnsignedLong = 42;
var anotherLong = (long)42;
```

The `l` or `L` suffix specifies that the integral literal should be of the `long` type. The `ul` or `UL` suffix specifies the `ulong` type. If the `L` suffix is used on a literal that is greater than 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 (the maximum value of `long`), the value is converted to the `ulong` type. If the value represented by an integer literal exceeds <xref:System.UInt64.MaxValue?displayProperty=nameWithType>, a compiler error [CS1021](../../misc/cs1021.md) occurs. 

> [!NOTE]
> You can use the lowercase letter "l" as a suffix. However, this generates a compiler warning because the letter "l" is easily confused with the digit "1." Use "L" for clarity.

## Conversions

> There's an implicit conversion (called a *widening conversion*) between any two integral types where the destination type can store all values of the source type. For example, there's an implicit conversion from `int` to `long` because the range of `int` values is a proper subset of `long`. There's no implicit conversion from any signed integral type to any unsigned integral type. There are implicit conversions from a smaller unsigned integral type to a larger signed integral type. There's also an implicit conversion from any integral type to any floating-point type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There's an implicit conversion (called a *widening conversion*) between any two integral types where the destination type can store all values of the source type. For example, there's an implicit conversion from `int` to `long` because the range of `int` values is a proper subset of `long`. There are implicit conversions from a smaller unsigned integral type to a larger signed integral type. There's also an implicit conversion from any integral type to any floating-point type.  There's no implicit conversion from any signed integral type to any unsigned integral type.
```
I thought that it would be better to list the not-allowed case last rather than in the middle of supported cases.

> You must use an explicit cast to convert one integral type to another integral type when an implicit conversion is not defined from the source type to the destination type.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps mention  that this is a narrowing conversion and that a cast is required because the conversion can result in data loss?

---
title: "Integral numeric types - C# reference"
description: "Learn the range, storage size, and uses for each of the integral numeric types."
ms.date: 06/25/2019
f1_keywords:
  - "byte"
  - "byte_CSharpKeyword"
  - "sbyte_CSharpKeyword"
  - "sbyte"
  - "short"
  - "short_CSharpKeyword"
  - "ushort"
  - "ushort_CSharpKeyword"
  - "int_CSharpKeyword"
  - "int"
  - "uint"
  - "uint_CSharpKeyword"
  - "long_CSharpKeyword"
  - "long"
  - "ulong_CSharpKeyword"
  - "ulong"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "integral types, C#"
  - "Visual C#, integral types"
  - "types [C#], integral types"
  - "ranges of integral types [C#]"
  - "byte keyword [C#]"
  - "sbyte keyword [C#]"
  - "short keyword [C#]"
  - "ushort keyword [C#]"
  - "int keyword [C#]"
  - "uint keyword [C#]"
  - "long keyword [C#]"
  - "ulong keyword [C#]"
---
# Integral numeric types  (C# reference)

> The **integral types** are a subset of the **numeric types**. The **numeric types** are a subset of the **simple types**. All integral types are value types and can be initialized with *literals*, for example "24". All integral types support [arithmetic](../operators/arithmetic-operators.md), [bitwise logical](../operators/bitwise-and-shift-operators.md), [comparison, and [equality](../operators/equality-operators.md) operators.

Reviewer: I was wrong in my first edit to mention value types and literals in one sentence. Literals should come with simple types. Also removed the "[" typo before the "equality" word.

```suggestion
The **integral numeric types** are a subset of the **simple types** and can be initialized with [*literals*](#integral-literals). All integral types are also value types.

All integral numeric types support [arithmetic](../operators/arithmetic-operators.md), [bitwise logical](../operators/bitwise-and-shift-operators.md), [comparison, and equality](../operators/equality-operators.md) operators.
```

## Sizes and ranges

The following table shows the sizes and ranges of the integral types:

|Type|Range|Size|  
|----------|-----------|----------|  
|`sbyte`|-128 to 127|Signed 8-bit integer|  
|`byte`|0 to 255|Unsigned 8-bit integer|  
|`short`|-32,768 to 32,767|Signed 16-bit integer|  
|`ushort`|0 to 65,535|Unsigned 16-bit integer|  
|`int`|-2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647|Signed 32-bit integer|  
|`uint`|0 to 4,294,967,295|Unsigned 32-bit integer|  
|`long`|-9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807|Signed 64-bit integer|  
|`ulong`|0 to 18,446,744,073,709,551,615|Unsigned 64-bit integer|  

The default value for all integral types is `0`. Each of the integral types has constants named `MinValue` and `MaxValue` for the minimum and maximum value for that type.

> 

Reviewer: The paragraph about `BigInteger` (line 107) might fit more in this section about sizes and ranges as the last paragraph.

## Integral literals

Integral literals can be specified as *decimal literals*, *hexadecimal literals*, or *binary literals*. An example of each is shown below:

```csharp
var decimalLiteral = 42;
var hexLiteral = 0x2A;
var binaryLiteral = 0b_0010_1010;
```

> Decimal literals don't require any prefix. The `x` or `X` prefix signifies a *hexadecimal literal*. The `b` or `B` prefix signifies a *binary literal*. The declaration of `binaryLiteral` demonstrates the use of `_` as a digit separator. Binary literals, and the `_` separator are features available starting in C# 7.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decimal literals don't require any prefix. The `x` or `X` prefix signifies a *hexadecimal literal*. The `b` or `B` prefix signifies a *binary literal*. The declaration of `binaryLiteral` demonstrates the use of `_` as a digit separator. Binary literals and the digit separator `_` are supported starting with C# 7.0.
```

> [!NOTE]
> You can use the lowercase letter "l" as a suffix. However, this generates a compiler warning because the letter "l" is easily confused with the digit "1." Use "L" for clarity.

## Conversions

There's an implicit conversion (called a *widening conversion*) between any two integral types where the destination type can store all values of the source type. For example, there's an implicit conversion from `int` to `long` because the range of `int` values is a proper subset of `long`. There's no implicit conversion from any signed integral type to any unsigned integral type. There are implicit conversions from a smaller unsigned integral type to a larger signed integral type. There's also an implicit conversion from any integral type to any floating-point type.

You must use an explicit cast to convert one integral type to another integral type when an implicit conversion is not defined from the source type to the destination type.

> If the value represented by an integer literal exceeds <xref:System.UInt64.MaxValue?displayProperty=nameWithType>, a compiler error [CS1021](../../misc/cs1021.md) occurs.

Reviewer: And that paragraph can be moved to the "Type of an integral literal" section.

Use the <xref:System.Numerics.BigInteger?displayProperty=nameWithType> structure to represent an arbitrarily large signed integer.

OTHER TASKS:

1. incorporate implicit and explicit conversion tables.
1. Consider related "table" consolidation.

## See also

> - [C# Language Specification - Integral types](~/_csharplang/spec/types.md#integral-types)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [C# language specification - Integral types](~/_csharplang/spec/types.md#integral-types)
```

## Sizes and ranges

The following table shows the sizes and ranges of the integral types:

|Type|Range|Size|  
|----------|-----------|----------|  
|`sbyte`|-128 to 127|Signed 8-bit integer|  
|`byte`|0 to 255|Unsigned 8-bit integer|  
|`short`|-32,768 to 32,767|Signed 16-bit integer|  
|`ushort`|0 to 65,535|Unsigned 16-bit integer|  
|`int`|-2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647|Signed 32-bit integer|  
|`uint`|0 to 4,294,967,295|Unsigned 32-bit integer|  
|`long`|-9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807|Signed 64-bit integer|  
|`ulong`|0 to 18,446,744,073,709,551,615|Unsigned 64-bit integer|  

The default value for all integral types is `0`. Each of the integral types has constants named `MinValue` and `MaxValue` for the minimum and maximum value for that type.

## Integral literals

Integral literals can be specified as *decimal literals*, *hexadecimal literals*, or *binary literals*. An example of each is shown below:

```csharp

> var decimalLiteral = 42

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var decimalLiteral = 42;
```

var hexLiteral = 0x2A;
var binaryLiteral = 0b_0010_1010;
```

> Decimal literals do not require any prefix. The `x` or `X` prefix signifies a *hexadecimal literal*. The `b` or `B` prefix signifies a *binary literal*.  The declarations of `binaryLiteral` demonstrates the use of `_` as a digit separator.

Reviewer: Nice to have: mention that binary literals and the digit separator are available beginning with C#7.0.

```suggestion
Decimal literals do not require any prefix. The `x` or `X` prefix signifies a *hexadecimal literal*. The `b` or `B` prefix signifies a *binary literal*. The declarations of `binaryLiteral` demonstrates the use of `_` as a digit separator.
```

> ## Types to an integer literal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Type of an integral literal
```

> If an integer literal has no suffix, its type is the first of the following types in which its value can be represented:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an integral literal has no suffix, its type is the first of the following types in which its value can be represented:
```

1. `int`
1. `uint`
1. `long`
1. `ulong`

> You can force an integral literal to a type with a smaller range than the default using either an assignment or a cast:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can convert an integral literal to a type with a smaller range than the default using either an assignment or a cast:
```

```csharp
byte byteVariable = 42; // type is byte
var signedByte = (sbyte)42; // type is sbyte.
```

> You can force an integral literal to a type with a larger range than the default using either assignment, a cast, or a suffix on the literal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can convert an integral literal to a type with a larger range than the default using either assignment, a cast, or a suffix on the literal:
```

```csharp
var unsignedLong = 42UL;
var longVariable = 42L;
ulong anotherUnsignedLong = 42;
var anotherLong = (long)42;
```

> The `l` or `L` suffix specifies that the integer literal should a `long`. The `ul` or `UL` suffix specifies a `ulong` type. If the `L` suffix is used on a literal that is larger than 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 (the maximum value of a `long`), the value is a `ulong`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `l` or `L` suffix specifies that the integral literal should be of the `long` type. The `ul` or `UL` suffix specifies the `ulong` type. If the `L` suffix is used on a literal that is greater than 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 (the maximum value of `long`), the value is converted to the `ulong` type.
```

> [!NOTE]
> You can use the lowercase letter "l" as a suffix. However, this generates a compiler warning because the letter "l" is easily confused with the digit "1." Use "L" for clarity.

## Conversions

> There is an implicit conversion (called a *widening conversion*) between any two integral types where the destination type can store all values of the source type. For example, there is an implicit conversion from `int` to `long` because the range of `int` values is a proper subset of `long`. There is no implicit conversion from any signed integral type to any unsigned integral type. There are implicit conversions from a smaller unsigned integral type to a larger signed integral type. There is also an implicit conversion from any integral type to any floating point type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is an implicit conversion (called a *widening conversion*) between any two integral types where the destination type can store all values of the source type. For example, there is an implicit conversion from `int` to `long` because the range of `int` values is a proper subset of `long`. There is no implicit conversion from any signed integral type to any unsigned integral type. There are implicit conversions from a smaller unsigned integral type to a larger signed integral type. There is also an implicit conversion from any integral type to any floating-point type.
```

You must use an explict cast to convert one integral type to another integral type when an implicit conversion is not defined from the source type to the destination type.

If the value represented by an integer literal exceeds <xref:System.UInt64.MaxValue?displayProperty=nameWithType>, a compiler error [CS1021](../../misc/cs1021.md) occurs.

Use the <xref:System.Numerics.BigInteger?displayProperty=nameWithType> structure to represent an arbitrarily large signed integer.

OTHER TASKS:

1. incorporate implicit and explicit conversion tables.
1. Consider related "table" consolidation.

## See also

- [C# Language Specification - Integral types](~/_csharplang/spec/types.md#integral-types)

> - [C# Reference](../index.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [C# reference](../index.md)
```

- [Floating-point types table](../keywords/floating-point-types-table.md)
- [Default values table](../keywords/default-values-table.md)
- [Formatting numeric results table](../keywords/formatting-numeric-results-table.md)
- [Built-in types table](../keywords/built-in-types-table.md)

> - [C# Programming Guide](../../programming-guide/index.md)

Reviewer: Recently we've removed the links to the programming guide from the operators articles.

```suggestion
```

---
title: "Integral numeric types - C# Reference"
description: "Learn the range, storage size, and uses for each of the integral numeric types."
ms.date: 06/25/2019
f1_keywords:
  - "byte"
  - "byte_CSharpKeyword"
  - "sbyte_CSharpKeyword"
  - "sbyte"
  - "short"
  - "short_CSharpKeyword"
  - "ushort"
  - "ushort_CSharpKeyword"
  - "int_CSharpKeyword"
  - "int"
  - "uint"
  - "uint_CSharpKeyword"
  - "long_CSharpKeyword"
  - "long"
  - "ulong_CSharpKeyword"
  - "ulong"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "integral types, C#"
  - "Visual C#, integral types"
  - "types [C#], integral types"
  - "ranges of integral types [C#]"
  - "byte keyword [C#]"
  - "sbyte keyword [C#]"
  - "short keyword [C#]"
  - "ushort keyword [C#]"
  - "int keyword [C#]"
  - "uint keyword [C#]"
  - "long keyword [C#]"
  - "ulong keyword [C#]"
---
# Integral types  (C# Reference)

> The **integral types** are a subset of the **numeric types**. The **numeric types** are a subset of the **simple types**. The integral types are all value types, and generally follow the mathematical rules for integer types. All integral types can be initialized by *literal constants*, for example "24".

Reviewer: What is the purpose of referencing to simple types (which are not defined (though simple types are defined through the list of types), nor referenced)? Also, that knowledge is not used further in the article, at least explicitly. So, why does a reader need to know that an integral type is a simple type. I'm afraid it might be confusing.

Further, the "all value types" might be understood as "there are no other value types". Also, "mathematical rules" is not clear -> let's reference to operators?
```suggestion
The **integral types** are a subset of the **numeric types**. The **numeric types** are a subset of the **simple types**. All integral types are value types and can be initialized with *literals*, for example "24". All integral types support [arithmetic](../operators/arithmetic-operators.md), [bitwise logical](../operators/bitwise-and-shift-operators.md), [comparison](../operators/comparison-operators.md) and [equality](../operators/equality-operators.md) operators.
```

Author: Great edit!

I'm referencing *simple types* because a PR coming soon (after adding floating point, and builtin in reference types) will define simple types using the language spec definition: they can be initialized with literals.
